Okay, so in the first session,
we will be really looking at was the kind
of underlying psychology of conversion.
What encourages people to take action?
What puts them off?
That kind of thing.
In this session, we're now gonna
start to build on those psychological
principles to explore how to
create a compelling offering.
Because no matter how
great your design is or
how well coded your website
is if the offering,
the content of the website isn't
compelling you're not gonna get anywhere.
Ultimately, content is key
when it comes to conversion.
The problem is that most people
have pretty bad creating
good what web copy, and
I include marketers in that.
In truth, it is a very specific discipline
to create really good compelling web copy.
Fortunately, it's something that can be
learned relatively easily at least to
start off with and although ideally you'd
probably want a professional copywriter
to help you out that isn't
always gonna be possible and
to be honest it's probably
better off you having a go.
Then is some marketer, or some client, or
stakeholder who really has got very
little experience writing good copy.
So in this section, I really wanna show
you how to go about creating copy,
how to give it a go yourself even
if that copy is just draft copy.
Okay, then somebody else refines and
improves over time.
So that's kind of the aim of this section.
So the way we're gonna break that down,
is we're gonna look at three
crucial questions that you need to be
asking yourself before you decide on
what you're offering is, or how you're
gonna present your offering, and
in particular, before you create any copy.
Then we're gonna look at the process
of creating what's called
a value proposition.
And then finally, we're going to
explore some different techniques and
tips that you can use for
creating great copy yourself.
Now, my first piece of advice is,
when you are asked to wireframe or
produce mock ups or
anything like that don't wait for
the client to give you copy righ> t but
don't you Use lorem ipsum either.
Oftentimes when we do mock ups it takes
forever to get any decent copy out of
the client and
even when they do deliver copy is
normally not particularly good copy.
So, actually a better approach is for you
to have a go at creating the messaging and
the layout and how all of these
different parts work together.
And then the client or
the stakeholders involved could tweak and
change that afterwards.
But if you set the basis for it,
then you can bake in best
practice from the beginning.
And you'll be able to have a conversation
with the client rather than just sending
you a word document with pages and pages
of text that you copy and paste across and
it's going to be completely and compelling
to anybody so with that in mind.
You're gonna have a go at the copy
what do you need to think about.
As I said, there are three crucial
questions you need to ask yourself before
you have a go at creating
the copy yourself.
And the first question
is who are your users?
Who is it that you're trying to reach and
appeal to?
Now, I'm not gonna get into
things like user research here or
anything like that, because to be
quite frank I could spend a whole day
just talking about that kind of stuff.
But having a clear picture in
your head of who your users are,
is really important when it comes
to creating a compelling value
proposition that will make
them want to act, right?
So you need to know who they are what
motivates them in particular,
you wanna know what questions they've got,
what concerns do they have,
what their ultimate goal is,
what pain points they're hoping you can
help them overcome things like that.
Now, different people approach
this in different ways.
It might be that you know somebody Who
is one of the potential group that
you're trying to appeal to,
in which case, as you produce your copy,
you can just picture that person in your
head at the most basic level, right?
You could also use personas.
As long as those personas are telling
you truly useful information
like that I listed above rather than
just George has 2.3 children and
lives in a semi detached house and
reads the Guardian.
That kind of information isn't
necessarily gonna be that helpful
in creating great copy.
So you need to have at least
an understanding of those tasks and
objections and questions and
that kind of thing.
Another exercise you might find very
useful is customer journey mapping.
If you've never done
customer journey mapping,
I'd encourage you to google it and
have a look but basically what it's doing?
Is it's outlining the user's
experience over time and
the different questions they have and
different tasks they wanna complete at
different points within their journey.
And that can be very helpful because not
only does it helps you understand the user
better but also help you understand the
context of the website you're creating.
Where does it fit into things?
So for example, some websites will take
the customer through the entire build
up buying cycle and E-commerce website
is a classic example of this, right?
You go on to the website, you research
your product, you select the product,
you make a purchase, and
then it's delivered and
you can do returns of things
through the website as well.
In other cases your website might
just do a part of the journey, for
example if you're buying a service like
if you are hiring a web design company.
Then the contract would be
to contact the people so
part of the sales process is
happening off the website.
So you kind of, Helps to understand the
context that the user is in when they're
interacting with your website and
actually understanding this journey and
this that users go on is is a really
fundamental part of kind of understanding
the whole structure and how you present
the different messages that you have.
So, understanding where that website fits
within the journey is really important.
So, is I'm not expecting you to be
able to read this slide, don't worry,
but this is the a mock up that I did have
a particular journey that I was doing for
one of my own courses that
I sell on my website.
So there was a landing page of course,
for the course I was selling but
actually a load of happened prior to that.
So I started off by surveying people
about what they might be interested in,
in terms of a course.
And I got people to sign up for
a pre-launch mailing list,to express
an initial interest in it, and
I kind of drip fed them a few emails
before they got to the landing page.
And then of course that is a big
difference in their mindset when they hit
that landing page to somebody
who just come in cold.
I'd already prepared them
a lot in that journey so
that they were ready to buy by
the time they hit the landing page.
So understanding what's happening
around the particular website or
page that you'll produce is really,
really important.
And not just what happens leading up to
it but also happens afterwards what email
communication so
they can receive afterwards.
How you're gonna update
them about their order or
whatever it is that the call
to action involved.
So essentially what we're
talking about here is thinking
about About the sales funnel, right?
This is a concept marketers talk about a
lot of the journey that uses going on and
the different stages in it.
So, step one in sauna was attracting
people's attention it's grabbing their
attention for the first time, right?
So let's use this for example.
So you're may be coming across me for
the first time you've never had about me
before, so I've attracted your attention
actually through doing this course.
Now, then the next stage in a sales funnel
is to make a connection with people.
So maybe because you have heard me
speak at this course you might go and
google my name and
that will take you to my website.
And then I want to make a connection.
So I want to get you to sign up to my
mailing list, for example, all right?
So the landing page has to get you
to sign up to my mailing list and
that's the conversion point then,
then I've got to keep you engaged, right?
So I've got to keep you interested,
until you're at a point where potentially
you might want to hire me for my services.
Okay, that's a typical sales journey of
attract attention, make a connection,
keep engagement and
then encourage contact.
Or make a purchase or whatever that
final step is in your particular case.
All of this provides the context
within which your website sits and
the copy that you produce sits and
makes an enormous difference on
what you say and when you say it.
Because if somebody knows when they hit
your website if they potentially know
nothing about your product or service,
you're gonna have to say a very different
set of things than somebody who's already
been pre prepared through something
like an email campaign or something or
even a pay per click ad Equally.
If somebody is promised something in
a pay per click ad then when they hit
the website you've got to make sure
you deliver that straightaway.
So context is everything understanding
your users needs is everything